gh-135056: Add a --header CLI argument to http.server (#135057)
python/cpython: Doc/library/http.server.rst

         delays, it now always returns the IP address.

.. class:: SimpleHTTPRequestHandler(request, client_address, server, directory=None, response_headers=None)

   This class serves files from the directory *directory* and below,
   or the current directory if *directory* is not provided, directly
   mapping the directory structure to HTTP requests.

   .. versionchanged:: 3.7

>       Added the *directory* keyword argument.

Reviewer: This wasn't what I had in mind. It's still correct to use parameter (so revert https://github.com/python/cpython/commit/c376a7119c3a34192939801cc4f6409ada3f65a9). What I wanted is for you to change the signature:

```rst
.. class:: SimpleHTTPRequestHandler(request, client_address, server, directory=None, response_headers=None)
```

to 

```rst
.. class:: SimpleHTTPRequestHandler(request, client_address, server,\
                                    *, directory=None, response_headers=None)
```

Author: Reverted old commit in 965371092ea2c13c408609b5d64d2bbd3a282232
Changed the signature documentation to show keyword only args in 3377cf7d406742a4a647496565962875e1a2b421

         delays, it now always returns the IP address.

> .. class:: SimpleHTTPRequestHandler(request, client_address, server, directory=None, response_headers=None)

Reviewer: Document that `directory` and `response_headers` are keyword arguments actually.

Author: Done in c376a7119c3a34192939801cc4f6409ada3f65a9

   .. versionchanged:: 3.9
      The *directory* parameter accepts a :term:`path-like object`.

>    .. versionchanged:: 3.15

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   .. versionchanged:: next
```

Author: Fixed in 1838da7f9bf7ab91f7699120a9fc0d24c8501edd

>       The *response_headers* parameter accepts an optional dictionary of

Reviewer 3: In previous versions, this was not a valid parameter at all.

```suggestion
      Added *response_headers*, which accepts an optional dictionary of
```

Also, did you consider accepting a list or iterable of (name, value) pairs instead, like returned by _http.client.HTTPResponse.getheaders_? That would be better for sending multiple Set-Cookie fields.

Author: Ah yes, sending multiple headers of the same name would indeed be necessary. I updated to use an iterable of name value pairs instead in 7a793f2d4be5394645b3da17c16a4468f640a875

>       additional HTTP headers to add to each response.

Reviewer 3: Might be worth clarifying how these fields interact with other fields such as Server specified under _BaseHTTPRequestHandler.send_response_, and Last-Modified under _do_GET_.

Also clarify which responses the fields are included in, assuming it wasn’t your intention to include them for 404 Not Found, 304 Not Modified, lower-level errors, etc.

Author: In the latest commits, I've noted that the custom headers are only sent in success cases. What do you mean by interaction though? The custom headers currently get sent after `Last-Modified`, should I mention the placement of the custom headers and that they appear after `Last-Modified`?

   .. versionchanged:: 3.9
      The *directory* parameter accepts a :term:`path-like object`.

   .. versionchanged:: next

>       Added *response_headers*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Added the *extra_response_headers* parameter.
```

Author: Fixed in 06a997786e6a8259cf638ace45fe633ab29fd481 and be7851534c227af26c3a0f9521d8c476b12fdb46

         This dictionary is no longer filled with the default system mappings,
         but only contains overrides.

   .. attribute:: extra_response_headers

      A sequence of ``(name, value)`` pairs containing user specified extra

>       HTTP response headers to add to each successful HTTP status 200 response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      A sequence of ``(name, value)`` pairs containing user-defined extra
      HTTP response headers to add to each successful HTTP status 200 response.
```

Author: Fixed in 53965ff949e9b807d7699596d663f47cbf3e66d0

>       All other status code responses will not include these headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      These headers are not included in other status code responses.
```

Author: Fixed in c280ed852c9df7679acc4fbed7ce856fd165da9f

         This dictionary is no longer filled with the default system mappings,
         but only contains overrides.

   .. attribute:: extra_response_headers

      A sequence of ``(name, value)`` pairs containing user-defined extra HTTP
      response headers to add to each successful HTTP status 200 response. These
      headers are not included in other status code responses.

      Headers that the server sends automatically (for instance Content-Type)

>       will not be overwritten by extra_response_headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Headers that the server sends automatically such as ``Content-Type``
      will not be overwritten by :attr:`!extra_response_headers`.
```

Author: Fixed in 1036a910adbe36bd1e483cd0f52bb67bf005e50a

      followed by a ``'Content-Length:'`` header with the file's size and a
      ``'Last-Modified:'`` header with the file's modification time.

      The instance attribute ``response_headers`` is used as an iterable of

>       name/value pairs to set user specified custom response headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The instance attribute ``response_headers`` is a sequence of
      ``(name, value)`` pairs containing the custom response headers.
```

Author: See f3ae90499a0bd34228c260ae72f4a92000f424d9

      followed by a ``'Content-Length:'`` header with the file's size and a
      ``'Last-Modified:'`` header with the file's modification time.

      The instance attribute ``extra_response_headers`` is a sequence of

>       ``(name, value)`` pairs containing user specified extra response headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ``(name, value)`` pairs containing user-defined extra response headers
      sent for a HTTP 200 response.
```

Author: Fixed in 53965ff949e9b807d7699596d663f47cbf3e66d0

      .. versionchanged:: 3.7
         Support of the ``'If-Modified-Since'`` header.

>       .. versionchanged:: 3.15

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      .. versionchanged:: next
```

>          Support ``response_headers`` as an instance argument.

Reviewer 3: Isn’t this redundant with the entry already under the constructor heading?

Author: Perhaps - it seems the constructor documentation is used to make a brief mention of each argument and when it was added, with more detail being filled in later. My latest commits make several changes requested elsewhere for other reasons, but if the current version is still too redundant in multiple places I can make some more edits.

Reviewer: I don't think we should add this information. There is no notion of an "instance argument": it should rather be an instance attribute, and this should be documented through a `.. attribute::`, below `.. attribute:: extensions_map`

      followed by a ``'Content-Length:'`` header with the file's size and a
      ``'Last-Modified:'`` header with the file's modification time.

>       The instance attribute ``extra_response_headers`` is a sequence of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The instance attribute :attr:`extra_response_headers` is a sequence of
```

Author: Fixed in 1036a910adbe36bd1e483cd0f52bb67bf005e50a

   .. versionadded:: 3.14

> .. option:: --cors

Reviewer: As Hugo said, since we're anyway exposing `response-headers`, I think we should also expose it from the CLI. It could be useful for users in general (e.g., `--add-header NAME VALUE` with the `-H` alias).

   Adds an additional CORS (Cross-Origin Resource sharing) header to each response::

     Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *

>    .. versionadded:: 3.15

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   .. versionadded:: next
```

   .. versionadded:: 3.14

> 

Reviewer: This is an unrelated change, please revert.

Author: Reverted in 44efbed6f0444c19b3277155d657446966a6a2f1

   .. versionadded:: 3.14

> .. option:: -H, --header <header> <value>

Reviewer: This is me being nitpicky but would it be preferrable to parse `header=value` or `header value` separate by a space? what about cURL/wget and other CLIs? (I think it's easier not to expect `=` as you did here because we could always say that `-H something` means `-H something 1`)

Author: I had a short discussion in the thread on python-ideas with @hugovk about this, see [here](https://discuss.python.org/t/any-interest-in-adding-a-cors-option-to-python-m-http-server/92120/25)

In short, cURL and wget do specify headers on their CLI as `--header "name: value"`. In the python-ideas thread I had opposed using a `name:value` syntax as a positional cli parameter, since it could possibly clash with a port syntax like 127.0.0.1:8000. However if we require an explicit `--header` or `-H` before each "name: value", I'm not opposed to the idea.

I think the argument in favor of the PR as it is with `-H <name> <value>` is simplicity of implementation - it fits right in with argparse and `nargs=2`. However, if similarity with cURL / wget is desired it isn't much effort to implement a "name: value" format. I have a draft implementation in a separate branch: see https://github.com/aisipos/cpython/commit/d878bf682ddff064499c243998d42b0db813f128

I'll admit to a slight leaning towards changing to the `name: value` format, given the principle of least surprise and the popularity of cURL and wget. Thoughts?

Reviewer: Let's keep the simple space-separated stuff. It will also ease terminal shortcuts where you only delete the previous word (ctrl+w) to change for instance the value of a header. It also simplifies maintenance.

Author: @picnixz OK, I'm fine with keeping the space separated / nargs implementation as is in this PR. I think I've made all the other changes you requested. What else remains to do for this PR?
